Kaylee Saves the World

This is a bonus game example from the book  _The Gamer's Guide to Coding_. All code is open source and provided 
under the Creative Commons 4.0 Sharealike license. See https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/4.0/ 
for more information. Some games may require additional third-party open source libraries; they are provided with 
their own license.

Bonus games are primarily designed as a teaching tool rather than as ready-to-go commercial games. They are 
functional examples of creating 2D games using bitmap graphics, so you can easily change and update them. The latest
version of Google Chrome is recommended as the development platform. All code and art is included. Consider them 
as springboards for your own unique creations. Refer to comments in the code.

Level: 3
Supported Interface: mouse only

Description: In Kaylee Saves the World, the player must fight off an army of invading green Martians. 
These aliens pop out from behind cards and other objects, then as quickly return to hiding. When visible, 
use the mouse to aim the ray gun; click to fire the gun. If an alien is hit, a “sizzle” sound effect is 
heard, and the Martian dissolves in mid-air.

Demonstrates: introductory splash screen (providing additional time for game assets to load); sprite sheets; 
coordination of the mouse position with the frames of the ray gun sprite sheet; complex CSS transitions 
that depict the aliens “dissolving” when struck by a death ray; sound effects; time delay between firing 
and the ray hitting its target (simulating distance, based on elevation of mouse pointer); object collision 
detection (alien and ray gun blast); graphic overlays; CSS animation; and much more.

To play: From the initial splash screen click the Play button. The Martian ship lands, and play begins.
 Aim and fire at aliens as they appear. Scoring is based on the number of aliens that have been 
disintegrated, against the number of aliens that have appeared.

