Pirate’s Cove Word Guess

This is a bonus game example from the book  _The Gamer's Guide to Coding_. All code is open source and provided 
under the Creative Commons 4.0 Sharealike license. See https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/4.0/ 
for more information. Some games may require additional third-party open source libraries; they are provided with 
their own license.

Bonus games are primarily designed as a teaching tool rather than as ready-to-go commercial games. They are 
functional examples of creating 2D games using bitmap graphics, so you can easily change and update them. The latest
version of Google Chrome is recommended as the development platform. All code and art is included. Consider them 
as springboards for your own unique creations. Refer to comments in the code.

Level: 2
Supported Interface: mouse, touchscreen

Description: Pirate’s Cove Work Guess is a “hangman” style game without the hanging. The players must guess 
the letters of the word. With each correct guess, the toon pirate puts on another piece of his costume, and 
his smile grows. With each wrong guess, the pirate loses pieces of his costume that have been ppreviously 
added, and his face turns into a frown.

Demonstrates: Initial splash screen; random word selection from a list of prepared words; sound effects; 
overlay graphics to build a complex scene; hide and show images; stored user settings with the localStorage 
object; manipulation of strings into arrays; comparison of arrays by element; popup options screen.

To play: Click or tap on the Click to Play button at the initial splash screen. Guess at the hidden word by 
clicking on a letter. Right and wrong answers result in a corresponding sound effect. The game is not timed, 
but there is a limit on the number of guesses. Player loses when there are no more guesses remaining.  

Pirate’s Cove supports user-settable options. Click on the Options button to set the word length and 
sound effects. The selected values are stored using the localStorage object, and reused in subsequent 
plays of the game.

